- CDI provides support for interceptors
that allow developers to implement cross-cutting
concerns in their applications,
such as logging,
auditing,
and security.
Interceptors are triggered when methods
on a particular bean are invoked,
allowing the cross-cutting logic
to be introduced.
The first step for setting up an interceptor
is to create an interceptor binding type,
which is an annotation that is used
to associate an interceptor
with a bean or a bean method.
We can just open up the new dialogue.
Within the new dialogue,
we can type interceptor,
and we'll see the interceptor binding annotation.
We want to select that.
Then we're going to go ahead and specify
the package as com.LinkedIn.jsf.
Here,
we can create a name for our interceptor binding.
We're going to call this the logging interceptor binding.
We'll just provide a name of logging.
You'll notice that it's able to target different sections
of a class.
Here we're looking at the type and the method.
That's where we can apply this interceptor.
Then we can allow the interceptor bindings
to be empty at this point.
Let's go ahead,
create the logging interceptor binding.
Now we need to create a second object.
This is actually our interceptor.
We'll just once again open the new dialogue,
type interceptor.
Then we're going to provide a name
of logging interceptor.
You'll notice that we're able
to add an interceptor binding.
Here,
we can go ahead and search for
our logging interceptor binding.
There you can see it.
We'll select it.
That associates that binding annotation
with this interceptor
so that when we use the binding annotation,
it will cause this interceptors around invoke method
to be invoked.
That allows us to add that cross-cutting logic
we talked about.
Let's go ahead.
We will create this interceptor.
You will see that it's registered in our beans.xml file.
Now if we take a look here,
you'll see the around invoke annotation.
That's basically specifying that we're able to
add some logic around a method invocation
in order to perform whatever cross-cutting concern
we need to.
In our case we're just going to do
some logging.
You can see,
we'll write some out put to the console.
We'll just say that the method invoked is,
and then you can see we get this invocation context.
That's referring to the actual method
being invoked.
So you can get all sorts of information,
like the parameters sent to that message.
You can look at the target.
There's different context data.
All of that information's available to you.
It's kind of meta-data about the method call,
so that you can apply security,
or maybe you're logging whatever you're interested in.
In our case we're just going to get the method,
and then we can get the name of that method.
We'll write it out to the console.
Then the next thing we do is really important.
We're going to invoke the proceed method,
which will allow the execution of the method
to proceed.
Here's where if you were applying security,
you would not allow the invocation of the method
to proceed.
With that in place,
what we do now is,
we need to add that interceptor binding
to one of our services.
I'm going to navigate to our local inventory service.
Here,
I'm going to add the logging interceptor binding
to our create item method.
That's going to cause that interceptor logic
to be executed every time we invoke
the create item method.
The other thing we're going to do
is we're going to remove the alternative annotation
from the local inventory service.
That's going to allow us to make sure
that that service is injected as opposed to our
remote inventory service.
The other thing that we'll need to do
in order to make sure that happens
is go into our inventory service factory.
We're going to remove this produces annotation
so that it's no longer consulted
when selecting our inventory service bean
in the CDI container for injection.
Okay.
We have our logging interceptor
that has our logging logic.
Then we have our interceptor binding,
and that is applied to the create item method
on the local inventory service bean.
With all that in place,
let's go ahead and we can run our application.
Then we'll open a browser.
Then we can navigate to our application,
select a product.
There here,
we can see if we look at our console output,
that our method invocation
was logged.
We can see that the method invoked
is create item.
Looks like we're missing a space there.
We can easily add that.
This gives you a good example
of how to use interceptors within CDI
in order to implement those cross-cutting concerns,
like logging or security.